The application can also provide temporal variations of astronomical parameters
and insolation series.
To do so, let’s choose ' Create ' and then
' Insolation / Astronomical series '.
In the Type field, we can choose between various astronomical
parameters and different types of insolation.
We can then select the astronomical solution to use, with
the reference shown on the right-hand side.
We select the time period over which the series is
computed.
Past ages can be entered as negative or positive values
We can choose the time unit: years or thousands of
years, noted k y r in the interface.
First, we plot the daily insolation using the ' Laskar
2 0 04 ' astronomical solution.
To represent Northern Hemisphere summer solstice insolation at 6 5
North, we enter 65 in the latitude field and 90
in the true longitude field.
We can, for example, plot this insolation over the last
1 6 0 thousand years, with a step of 0
2.
Please note that the application relies on true longitudes and
not calendar dates.
The true longitude is illustrated in the schematic on the
right-hand side: it corresponds to the angle ' lambda '
between the vernal point ' gamma ', defined as 0
°, and the position of the Sun as seen from
Earth at a given time.
The reason for using true longitudes instead of dates is
illustrated in the second figure, accessible using the carousel navigation
arrows: the length of the seasons, defined by fixed true-longitude
intervals, varies through time.
This is ignored when using fixed dates such as June
21.
In our case study, we also plot the daily insolation
at a latitude of 5 ° South for the Southern
Hemisphere summer solstice, still over the last 1 6 0
thousand years.
We then enter - 5 in the latitude field and
2 7 0 in the true longitude field.
We can click on ' Import series ' to save
the insolation time series.
Finally, we calculate and plot the integrated insolation between two
true longitudes, selected in the Type field.
We plot the insolation integrated over the Southern Hemisphere summer
period, namely December, January, and February.
We need to determine the corresponding true longitude values.
We know that the true longitude of the Southern Hemisphere
summer solstice is 2 7 0 °.
We assume that 3 6 0 days correspond to 3
6 0 ° of longitude.
The Southern Hemisphere summer period, from early December to late
February, roughly corresponds to true longitudes between 2 50 and
3 4 0.
We enter these values in True Longitude 1 and True
Longitude 2.
We click on ' Import series ' to save this
Southern Hemisphere integrated summer insolation.
Take a moment to name the series.
We can now compare our filtered ' PercAndes ' record
with this Southern Hemisphere integrated summer insolation curve.
We click on ' Display Together ' and use a
separate vertical axis.
We observe that high values of the filtered ' PercAndes
' record generally correspond to high insolation values.
The scientific interpretation is that Southern Hemisphere integrated summer insolation
controls, on precessional time scales, the intensity of the South
American summer monsoon system, and thus the delivery of Andean-derived
terrigenous material at the core site.